3- The Valley of Insight into Mystery [knowledge]The next broad valley which the traveler seesBrings insight into hidden mysteries;Here every pilgrim takes a different way,And different spirits different rules obey.Each soul and body has its level hereAnd climbs or falls within its proper sphere –There are so many roads, and each is fitFor that one pilgrim who must follow it.How could a spider or a tiny antTread the same path as some huge elephant?Each pilgrim’s progress is commensurateWith his specific qualities and state(No matter how it strives, what gnat could flyAs swiftly as the winds that scour the sky?).Our pathways differ – no bird ever knowsThe secret route by which another goes.Our insight comes to us by different signs;One prays in mosques and one in idols’ shrines –But when Truth’s sunlight clears the upper air,Each pilgrim sees that he is welcomed there.His essence will shine forth; the world that seemedA furnace will be sweeter than he dreamed.He will perceive the marrow, not the skin –The Self will disappear; then, from withinThe heart of all he sees, there will ascendThe longed-for face of the immortal Friend.A hundred thousand secrets will be knownWhen that unveiled, surpassing face is shown –A hundred thousand men must faint and failTill one shall draw aside the secrets’ veil –Perfected, of rare courage he must beTo dive through that immense, uncharted sea.If you discern such hidden truths and feelJoy flood your life, do not relax your zeal;Though thirst is quenched, though you are bathed in blissBeyond all possible hypothesis,Though you should reach the throne of God, imploreHim still unceasingly: “Is there yet more?”Now let the sea of gnosis drown your mind,Or dust and death are all that you will find.If you ignore our quest and idly sleep,You will not glimpse the Friend; rise now and weep.And if you cannot find His beauty here,Seek out Truth’s mysteries and persevere!But shame on you, you fool! Bow down your head;Accept a donkey’s bridle and be led!